- [Instructor] So now we're to the last step
of our CRUD operation: deleting data.
So let's jump into JDBC and see how to do this operation.
So I want you to jump back into your IDE
and once again, go to src, main, java,
our base package and our CustomerDAO.
Once again, we're going to add a private static String.
This time we will call DELETE.
And it will be equal to the value DELETE FROM customer
WHERE customer_id equals question mark.
Now we can scroll down to our DELETE method.
And we will implement this as we have done so many times
with a try with resources, so PreparedStatement.
Passing the DELETE.
Catch the exception.
And now we can implement the method.
And this is a relatively simple one to implement.
Statement.setLong equal to our id,
and then we will simply call statement.execute
because we don't need a return type on this.
And that's all there is to our DELETE method.
So let's go back to our JDBCExecutor.
And we're going to get rid of most of the stuff.
And we're going to go actually implement a full routine.
But before we do that,
we're going to go add a helper method to our customer.
And I'm going to allow my IDE to generate a toString method.
Now, every IDE that works with Java
has a way to generate a toString method.
I don't really care which method you do.
Just generate a toString.
That's all that matters
is that we have an easy way to print out the contents
of this customer
so that we don't have to type it out 20 times.
So now that that is done,
let's go implement this routine.
We'll go ahead and leave the CustomerDAO here.
The first thing we will do
is we will create a new customer.
And we're going to put in some data here
about our second president in the United States of America.
All right, so now that we've got
that bogus customer data created,
we'll create a new customer called dbCustomer
that we will use to manipulate
throughout the rest of this method.
So we'll go into our customerDAO
and we will create our customer.
And now we're going to do a System.out.println
on our dbCustomer.
And then we'll do a GET on that customer.
And then we'll print this one out
and we expect this to be the exact same.
Now we will take our customer
and we will change our email,
and this time, we're going to do john.adams@whitehouse.gov.
And we will update it.
And then once again, we'll print it out.
And then finally, we're going to go ahead
and delete our customer.
And now that we've got all that done,
we'll go ahead and run our method.
And then you can see we have some data that's spit out.
Now, if your ID doesn't match mine,
it probably just means
that you've run create a couple other times,
and that's okay.
What really matters here
is that we ran through the sequence,
we added a customer, we got a customer,
we updated our customer and we deleted it.
So what we'll do is we're actually going to check
that this value doesn't exist on our database.
So we're going to do a psql -h
localhost -U postgres -d for hplussport.
When it prompts for our password,
we'll use our uber secure password of password.
And now we're at our Postgres prompt.
So what we can do is a select star from customer
where customer_id equals,
in my case, 10001.
You'll want to see whatever value you saw
in your running console.
End it with a semicolon.
And you'll see I get zero rows returned.
Now, if I do the same thing with our previous value,
which was George Washington,
you'll see that I get data back.
And that's just to let us know
that the data truly was deleted
at the end of our test.
And that's all there is to deleting data in JDBC.